Due to problems with the installation of the Redis database, the application is only partly functional. It consists of two segments, management service and redirection service.
The management service is a RESTful API, written in PHP. It’s connected to a MySQL database. 
The Url class, with its 3 properties, maps the url database table. It also contains methods for managing short and long urls, checking their validity, preventing duplication and performing CRUD operations. The “create” script represents an end point, which instantiates the Url class, accepts long URLs from the user input, checks their validity, creates short URLs and saves them into the database by calling the corresponding functions of the Url class object. If an url object is successfully saved it sends an HTTP response with code 200. Otherwise, code 503 is sent in case of the url object failing any of the performed checks, or code 404 if the url is not found. End point “delete” removes an url from the database on user’s request. This is done based on the id number of the url object.  
Redirection service has an instance of a web server that listens on port 8080. On every HTTP request, it redirects to the location that the corresponding long URL points to. Prior to the redirection, the redirection service accepts a short URL string and checks if it matches with any of the existing ones in the Redis database. Or rather, this would be the case if I was able to properly install one, of course. Redis database is convenient for this purpose due to the fact that it’s a noSQL database in which data is stored on the value – key principle. Due to this kind of data structuring, short URLs can be used as keys and long ones as values. The redirection segment communicates with the management service by the means of the RabbitMQ message queuing software. Whenever an URL pair is saved or deleted, a message is supposed to be sent to the redirection service in order to remove the same pair in the Redis database. 
